Welcome everyone to interview question number five for the statistics section of the course.
Now I would say this is definitely one of the most tricky questions in the section of the course and
that's probably because of the fact that you need to somehow map your understanding of the normal distribution
to a word problem.
Now there are lots of hints here that help you out for that.
But keep in mind it's not super clear and super obvious at first.
So let's go out and take a closer look at this question we see here that we have the average life of
a certain type of motor is 10 years with a standard deviation of two years.
So already there we can see that we're thinking in terms of a normal distribution.
We have an average life or mean in a normal distribution of 10 with a standard deviation that is the
sigma of two years.
Now if the manufacturer is willing to replace only 3 percent of the motors because of failures how long
a guarantee should she or he the manufacturer offer assume the lives of the motors following normal
distribution.
So again to fully solve this we do need a z table so I told him to treat this as part of it take some
tasks so you can use those resources.
So let's go ahead and look up the valleys.
We're going to need a z table.
Show you how to do that and solve this problem.
So first off we're going to be using the standard normal curve which has a mean of zero and standard
deviation of one unit.
So please remember that you have a normal distribution.
Here we have the minute zero stand the is one or sigma one with musical to zero.
And what we can do given a standard normal distribution is we can transform all the observations of
any normal random variable x with mean myu and various Sigma to a new set of observations of another
normal random variable z with mean zero and one using the following transformation.
Z is equal to that random variable x minus myu divided by Sigma.
So the exact equation we're going to be using and we're going to plug some things in and try to solve
for how many years the guarantee should be.
So here we're going to do is say X is the life of the motor and we're searching for that guarantee period
and we'll call that small X. So really what we're searching for is where p of X less than x is equal
to zero point zero or three and using a z table you can find out that the corresponding z score for
0.03 there is going to be z equals negative 1.8.
So later on a little bit will show you how to look that up but for now once you have those results you
know that the average lifespan is 10 years and seven standard deviations too.
So we have Z is equal to x minus over Sigma.
Plugging the numbers in.
You get X minus 10 over 2 is equal to negative 1.8.
Solving that leads to x is equal to six point to four.
So the guaranteed period should be six point to four years.
We can see here mapped on a normal distribution itself.
So basically what we're looking for is that corresponding the value of 6.2 for.
So let's go ahead and figure out what that z score is or how to look it up.
How will we actually find out that negative 1.8.
And there's a really useful link called the Z table or Z that's table and we're going to go to that
right now.
It's also linked to you in your guide book.
So let's take a look at that Web site which is essentially is the Z table with a lot of information.
OK here we are at this Zied dash table dot com Web site.
And if this Web sites were down you can always look up any normalcy table just google CSY table and
you'll see something like this in Google images.
Those are really nice about this Web site is it has a Z score calculator you can use really easily here.
We're not exactly calculating the score directly like that but we're going to also show you how you
can use the score table so what's really there says Step 1 step 2 etc. So actually shows you how you
can do this.
And what we're going to do is hop over the table and figure out what we need to know.
So again we're looking for z here and this filled in the table entry.
We know that's going to be needing to be equal to zero point zero or three.
So we're going to come over here and look up for these table entries.
The 0.03.
So we'll come over here we see that there's point zero of three and if keep going down here all the
way on the right we see that there's point zero threes or a one we're going to go ahead and say it's
close enough.
Point 0 3 and then we look at the corresponding z score.
So the first two digits are over here on the left hand side column.
We have one negative 1.8 and then grab that another decimal place to come up here and you see here that's
point zero.
So you adding these together so that you end up getting negative one point eight eights and that's how
we actually grab that z score.
And I mean together may not be the right term to use you're basically kind of plugging that in.
You're not really adding point 0 8 to negative 1.8.
It's that you're just kind of tacking on that third decimal place number two negative 1.8.
So that's how we got negative 1.8 as the corresponding z score.
We went ahead as we knew the area.
We looked it up here first point 0 3 and then we saw negative 1.8 and we grabbed that final point 0
8.
Okay.
So what's really nice about this Web site that's linked to your guide book that if you want more information
you click here and how he uses the score table and they show you another example given an IQ test you
convert of things Susy's score find the area corresponding to the score and then draw a valid conclusion.
Here they're kind of going the other way around.
From what we did we essentially found the area first then found the corresponding z score and then we
know that a plug in to find X..
OK.
So really useful website and this sort of problem isn't very common in an in-person or onsite interview
just because they're not really going to have a z score table ready for you but you may find that in
some sort of take home test or even some sort of technical screening that's online.
So keep that in mind.
Okay.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.